Lenses y'all, right?
Let's bring those in.
So bring in a lens prop, And
over of n, let's also get removed for
destroy because I like,
I don't have to do these weird splices and
whatnot.
We'll come we'll get that from lamda, so
now on create we can say,
fact append array.
So we can do over state and we need
to make a lens prop for the habits.
That's what we want to change right
elda habits, overhead habits.
We want to sorry states the last argument.
We want to append the habit.
Cool, forgot a little.
And let's go ahead and
make our little lens namespace and
we could probably just do this in mind.
Yet habits and
that will be lensProp, Habit.
Cool, one thing about this
little autocomplete thing,
it tells me I actually imported it right,
so that's nice.
Cool, so we all see how that works.
Let's see if that goes through a,
b not working at all.
[LAUGH] All right, what's happening here?
So we're saying over the habits,
append the habit.
And do you believe that should work, so
anybody see any issues?
>> Structure the habit.
>> Habits in your own lensprop.
>> Thank you that's it.
Good i b, c it's so nice.
All right and if I destroy let's get
rid of cleared the whole thing out,
I did that on purpose.
[LAUGH] All right.
So let's do the same
thing with lenses why not
over habits remove the ID
x remove one is remove
is basically like splice or
the state traffic.
And then were run this a,
b and c the actual property,
cool letter b, so we're doing great,
we're very happy.
We're using Montes,
we got all the stuffs but
one thing that kind annoying
me is that each time
we're having to kind of,
how do I say this?
We have to deal with this state and
managing, like adding to it.
What if instead, we actually returned,
we just returned a state and
it just merged it for us.
We didn't have to deal with
merging this stuff, right?
So this object assign for
instance is saying I have a state and
it's on you as a developer of our app,
as we add new actions
over time to always make sure
you merge the state back in.
What if you could just return merge and
it's a monoid.
Right, monoids for the wind, so
now I don't have to worry about
actually object assigning my state.
Let's make a monoid there.
We do the same thing here,
just emerge and emerge here.
And so what this is gonna do is just
merge, with the lenses, not such a big
deal where we're just opening up
the state changing something and
returning a whole state back so the merge
doesn't buy as much here, but down here,
it does a lot like we're just
turning a little bit of state.
It will merge that back into the state for
us.
And as we build more,
we don't have to worry about always
managing this whole state structure and
not breaking it.
We could just return the little
piece that we care about
everybody on board with this idea.
All right, let's go ahead and
make a merge.
Back to our very first
thing of the day monoids.
And we'll just say I will expose the X and
we'll concat that by saying,
get another merge.
We always stay closed, object assign, make
a nice copy, so we don't break anything.
Maybe we can go back and try to check and
make sure it's super performing and
get rid of this but at the moment,
we're just gonna be on the safe side and
make a nice little copy.
And we'll say other .x,
so we're merging our x
with another x meaning plus a merge a 1,
concat merge a 2,
I think I want the right one to win,
so that makes sense.
This one's gonna overwrite this one,
just how we're defining it, so work.
See what happens, maybe we'll flip that,
but there we go, so we get a merge.
Now I have to go update our
main app loop now, right?
Let's go ahead and just get rid
of these curly braces killing me.
[LAUGH] If you ever see me write curly
braces and a function and return,
I'm in a bad space mentally.
[LAUGH] So, here we are,
we're in this event loop and
as we call these functions now
the returning a submerge, right.
So what we'll have to do is get the state
we wanna start with emerge of state
working concat that with whatever
this returns which is emerge.
And then okay that concats
It there's the whole thing,
and we're not gonna pass a merge here.
So let's just pop it out of the merge,
just get it out, get it out of the type
of the x after we do the operation.
Everybody see how that works?
We're gonna merge the two states, so
this returns a merge on each of these and
then we take it out.
Great, it's still working.
How about that?
And we click B, and
it's showing B, hooray.
One thing I don't like already is that
I have to call merge everywhere, so
let's factor that out.
Let's put that back down into our
event loop will get it out of these
these little functions that are just
returning little bits of state now and
they're all being merged, not super nice.
So we'll just put this in
a merge down here, cool.
It's getting a little bit out of control.
Let's go ahead [LAUGH] and do that or
something for the time being.
All right, and
we'll concat these two right here,
and we'll get the x, there we go.
So it's a little bit ugly,
I'm not gonna lie, but that's fine.
Not ugly conceptually,
that's a lot of nesting.
But up here, when we're actually defining
our functions, look how clean this is.
I don't know if you've ever used redox,
but
there's the littered with switch
statements and what not, okay?
We know that state gets
passed in each time.
And we know we can flip
arguments around and
we can use readers to
kind of factor that out.
And I noticed,
I'm not using state down here, right?
I'm just ignoring it, so
why do I have to pass it in every time?
Why do I have to deal with it?
Now they just returned
a little bits of state.
How do I how about we only ask for
it when we want to map over the state and
then we'll do look how
nice this worked out.
I can cancel out the state's boom, boom.
So it's just a first class
function that passes in the state.
All right, that's neat and now this is
just a function that takes a habit.
Hey look,
that function is like a normal function.
[LAUGH] It's not a reducer anymore.
So let's go ahead and do that for
these let's get rid of the state here and
we'll do the exact same pattern here,
we'll map over, we'll ask for
the state and we'll get it back.
And then down here we get rid of the state
all together, we don't even have to ask
for it, we're fine, okay,
how do we how do we implement that, right?
Well, we have to go get
asked right off the bat, so
let's get a function from our lib types,
and function has asked so
just ask from function.
Great, and then we'll use functions
down here to model our stuff.
Now I could wrap this in a function and
all that, but
I'm gonna say this is a function
that returns the FN type, right?
And this one I guess I could just put
that right there just for now and
say, okay, well,
I have a function of that.
I believe we can factor this out again to
get back to that or not, I'm not sure yet.
We'll figure it out, so, where are we?
Instead of calling our
function a state now,
we're just caught with the payload, right?
But then we run that thing with
the state and it can choose whether or
not it wants to use it.
All right, compiled successfully,
look at that.
Going over here, a,
b look how nice that is.
I could delete it, yep,
I can show it, yep.
Cool, all right, so now we're able
to just pull state out of nowhere.
[LAUGH] And, in return little
bits we're gonna do here is say,
all right again, the structure of this
application can be different, right?
We can pull this out into our app loop.
We can pull all this stuff
out into our controller.
We can move this into a library and so
we don't have to here.
And honestly,
I don't care that we are, you know,
hit a point where I want to move those
into a controller and a little model and
utility libraries and my little main
function, which is the app loop.
But you typically see a lot of
functional programs like this,
because it just doesn't matter.
And so I think it eventually matters and
that's when you do it.